[WHOOSH]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[SUPERNATURAL MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: What an
exciting series on Gaia,
"Ancient Civilizations."
>>MATTHEW LACROIX:
Really, we have
a story that at
least goes back 20,
perhaps over 50,000 years ago.
>>GEORGE: Wow.
>>LACROIX: We're
actually focusing
on specific civilizations.
We even go into ice
cores, really try
to recreate what the atmosphere
and the climate was like back
then.
>>GEORGE: How do you find it
with ancient civilizations?
>>LACROIX: The
Sumerians, Akkadians,
and Babylonians who
realized that cuneiform
was the only way
that something could
survive more than 1,000 years.
So it's an open-minded show,
but it's largely evidence-driven
as much as it possibly can be.
[SUPERNATURAL MUSIC]
>>GEORGE: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Matt LaCroix with us, a
writer and researcher.
He specializes in Mesopotamian
history and megalithic
civilizations.
Matthew, welcome
back to the program.
>>LACROIX: Thanks, George.
It's great to be
talking to you again.
>>GEORGE: Some great
things continue
to happen for you and "Beyond
Belief" and "Gaia Television."
You've got a program called
"Ancient Civilizations."
You're just picked up for
another season, aren't you?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, we've been
working on a lot of things.
Some of the projects at Gaia
have been really exciting.
The direction we're taking
with "Ancient Civilizations"
and other shows,
to be part of that
and do something that really
changes people's perspective
is a really exciting thing.
And I love that my work can be
incorporated into that, as well
as being on the show itself.
>>GEORGE: It's great to be
honored that way, isn't it?
>>LACROIX: It really is.
It feels good, and I'm
really excited for all
that we have coming
forward with--
coming for season 5 and then
season 4 and then season 5
coming up.
>>GEORGE: They just keep going
by like that, don't they?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, exactly.
>>GEORGE: How did you get
involved in your interest
in ancient civilizations?
>>LACROIX: Well, it
certainly wasn't something
that I had planned for.
I was just a very
inquisitive person.
And I remember just going
along the inquisitive road
of being curious about so
many things in the world.
And when I started
to really look
into some of these
researchers, like
Graham Hancock and
Randall Carlson
and Robert Bauval
and Robert Schoch.
You start to see
some of the research
that they're
providing, which really
challenges the narrative.
And instead of being
something that, perhaps,
makes you less
interested in history,
it excites you more
because of, really,
this hidden truth,
you could call it,
that seems to exist that
is not being recognized.
>>GEORGE: In "Ancient
Civilizations"
what is your approach?
>>LACROIX: Our approach
now, we are completely
revitalizing and rechanging
"Ancient Civilizations"
into a show that is
going to be the finest
example of an evidence-driven
show with a high production
value and a lot of
very important speakers
that then looks at these
topics with the most
amount of evidence
possible around the world
to try to recreate
this lost story,
recreate our story from
how far back it goes
and how sophisticated it is
but bring it to this level
where it's from a
scholarly academic level.
>>GEORGE: How far
back does it go?
>>LACROIX: Well, that's
a difficult question
to answer because
we're really looking
at the evidence from
the ancient Sumerians
or looking at the
ancient Egyptian cultures
or the ancient Hindu cultures.
Really, we have a story that
at least goes back 20, perhaps,
over 50,000 years ago.
>>GEORGE: Wow.
>>LACROIX: And we're
not talking about--
>>GEORGE: That far back?
>>LACROIX: Well, we're not
talking about nomadic hunter
gatherers.
We're talking about when
civilization emerged.
>>GEORGE: Sophisticated
civilizations.
>>LACROIX: Yeah,
exactly, exactly.
>>GEORGE: Which is phenomenal.
What kind of technology do you
think they had that far back?
>>LACROIX: Well, it may not
be necessarily a question
of the types of technology
because it may be more
about a deep
understanding of nature
and about the laws of
physics and reality
because, when we look at some
of these great structures
like the Great Pyramid
of Giza, 2 and 1/2
million megalithic blocks, an
average of 10 to 15 tons each,
we look at that,
and if you actually
try to consider how
if they were to lay
each block with sheer
manpower, to try
to do that over the course of
the time period we're given,
it seems completely impossible.
And when we look at other
megalithic structures
around the world, it seems that
there's something else going on
besides technology, maybe
more of an understanding
of harmonics and
frequency related to some
of these ancient structures.
>>GEORGE: What are
some of the things
you get involved with in the
new season in terms of topics?
>>LACROIX: One of the
big directional changes
of "Ancient Civilizations" that
we've done going from seasons 1
through 3, going into season
4 now and then into season 5
and beyond is now, instead of
looking at concepts and core
ideas from around the
world about civilizations,
we're actually focusing
on specific civilizations.
So for instance,
looking at, well,
when did the first original
Egyptian civilizations
that built the
pyramids, when did they
come around in history?
And when did they get
their start, and how
did they get their knowledge?
And then looking at
places like Easter Island
with the ancient Moai heads and
how far down under the ground
they go and how they're part
of a civilization that greatly
predates the Rapa Nui, all
the way to places like Japan,
which really hasn't
been talked about a lot
with their megaliths, and
Machu Picchu, and Tiwanaku,
and the underwater cities
like Dwarka, India.
We're really taking this
to a new direction where
we're specifically looking
at civilizations that
existed before the Younger
Dryas catastrophes of 12,000
years ago.
>>GEORGE: That's exciting.
Do you get into the how
were the pyramids built?
>>LACROIX: We do.
We talk a lot about some of the
knowledge and some of the ways
in which those structures
were put together and really
go into, well, how old are they,
if we look at star alignments
and considering the
procession of the equinox?
We have to try to consider that
these dates that we're told
and this time frame
is completely wrong.
And we have to
start over and try
to listen to what the
evidence says to recreate
the story of our story.
>>GEORGE: There was a chap by
the name of Edward Leedskalnin,
who was from Latvia, who
came to the United States
and built something that
still mystifies everybody.
We call it Coral Castle.
>>LACROIX: Yep.
>>GEORGE: This frail man, small,
moved blocks almost the size
of the pyramids to
build Coral Castle.
How in the world did he do that?
And you look at him, don't you?
>>LACROIX: It's an
interesting story, and people
that describe catching him
in the middle of his building
state, that he did
it all alone, and he
would do it when no one
was around, often at night.
And somehow, he would
take these massive blocks
and he would build them
up to create Coral Castle.
>>GEORGE: And move them.
>>LACROIX: But he
states that he learned
the secrets of the
pyramid builders of Giza,
and essentially, he
understood the same things
that they did, which
I think gets back
into looking at the type of
work that Nikola Tesla did.
We're looking at sound and
frequency and vibration.
>>GEORGE: And magnetism.
>>LACROIX: Right, that
seems to be the core of this
rather than sheer manpower.
>>GEORGE: He was a staunch
believer in magnetism,
even wrote a small book on that.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, exactly.
>>GEORGE: I wonder if he
somehow magnetized the blocks
and repelled them and just
floated them into place.
>>LACROIX: Well, that's
one of the things
that it comes into place
because, if our planet is based
on this electromagnetism of the
entire North and South Pole,
with these energy
centers, if you knew,
just like Nikola
Tesla talked about,
if you knew how to tap into that
free energy and understanding
magnetism, you can
essentially do things that we
think are impossible today.
>>GEORGE: Well, Matt,
we've teased people enough.
Let's show them a little
glimpse of season 4
of "Ancient Civilizations."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
- Planet Earth.
According to radiometric
dating, this planet
is roughly 4.5
billion years old.
Modern day scholars
claim that civilization
began roughly between
5,000 and 6,000 years ago.
Geological records show that
severely erratic weather
patterns were present on
the planet roughly 12,000
years ago.
Countless myths and legends
from around the planet
depict a time of
complete chaos that
destroyed all civilizations
on the planet.
The deluge, the cataclysm, the
event, the end of the world.
Along with these great
fables, ancient sites,
like Gobekli Tepe in
Turkey, Easter Island
in the South Pacific, South
America, Giza Plateau,
Japan and India, contain a level
of sophistication and design
that baffles the minds of
scholars and scientists.
Most of these sacred
sites have foundations
composed of stones weighing
in excess of 30 tons that
defy our human understanding.
If civilization only happened
roughly 5,000 to 6,000 years
ago, then who built these
foundational wonders
in prediluvian times that
were designed to survive
the end of the world?
And what were those
beings who inhabited
the Earth long before
the flood trying
to tell us about our
connection to the cosmos?
We turn to science for answers
to help unravel the mystery.
But when we look below the
surface, the laws of physics
appear to have been mastered
long before humanity
began to figure them out.
- Science is a living
body of information.
It's not static.
It's not fixed.
It's designed to be
constantly updated.
When new discoveries
come to light,
we've got to incorporate
those discoveries
into the pre-existing
scientific story.
We're writing a new
story right now.
We have to because
the evidence no longer
supports the story of the past.
The evidence no longer
supports the theory
that civilization, for
example, began between 5,000,
5,500 years ago.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>GEORGE: What an
exciting series on Gaia,
"Ancient Civilizations."
>>LACROIX: Yeah, I'm
incredibly excited.
We put so much work into
this to try to do something
that no one's ever done before
to the level of really bringing
both quality and evidence to
something that really captures
what this story really was.
>>GEORGE: Well,
it looks like you
bring real science and real
metaphysics to the table,
and that's exciting.
>>LACROIX: We do.
We even go into
ice cores where we
look at drilling that's
been done in Greenland
and Antarctica,
really try to recreate
what the atmosphere
and the climate
was like back then to
try to understand, well,
if a disaster did occur,
what is the science
that that's based on to try
to understand, well, how does
all this fit into our story?
>>GEORGE: What are
prediluvian civilizations?
>>LACROIX: That's a really
important thing to understand.
There's other terms
that have been used.
They essentially mean the
same thing, antediluvian,
prediluvian, preflood.
Essentially, that
time period has
been identified geologically
and through climatology
as being before these
events of the Younger Dryas.
The Younger Dryas is
called that because it's
a very disruptive time
period in history that
came between around 10,800
years ago and 13,000 years ago.
And it's this time period
of several thousand years
that essentially has these
incredibly disastrous events
that occurred on the Earth.
And that's what we
think of as the flood
because, ultimately, the
totality of those events--
>>GEORGE: The Noah flood.
The Noah flood?
>>LACROIX: Exactly, ultimately,
the totality of that
was that there was
a massive flood.
I think that was mostly
based on tsunamis worldwide.
But either way, what that
means is prediluvian or any
of the civilizations that
existed before that event.
>>GEORGE: There's no question
that the Bible has spelled out
a lot of strange things that
happened on this planet.
But as you have pointed out,
there's no other history.
There's no other
record of things
that we had where the
knowledge is lost.
What happened to the
plans for the pyramids?
Surely they had to
be able to construct
them architecturally with
sketches or something
on papyrus.
Where are they?
>>LACROIX: Well, that's actually
a very good point to make.
When we look at papyrus and
we look at paper records, what
we find is that paper
specifically can only
last 500 to 1,000 years.
And when we look at these--
>>GEORGE: And then
it disintegrates.
>>LACROIX: Right, exactly.
So how do you have a
message be protected
that can actually survive?
And that really comes down to
the ingenuity of the Sumerians,
Akkadians, and
Babylonians who realized
that cuneiform, etching
into stone or clay
and then baking that
clay into tablets,
was the only way
that something could
survive more than 1,000 years.
And I think that's why,
because the Egyptians relied
so heavily on papyrus and paper
records and some hieroglyphs.
Although, I think
hieroglyphs were mainly
done by the later
dynastic pharaohs.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>LACROIX: And I
think that's one
of the reasons why some of
that information has been lost.
>>GEORGE: And don't forget
the Dead Sea Scrolls.
>>LACROIX: That's
right, and that's--
>>GEORGE: Clay tablets, right?
>>LACROIX: But that's paper.
The Dead Sea Scrolls is paper.
And thankfully, it
was put in these caves
above the Dead Sea, which
was a very, very dry climate.
So it enables
something like that
to survive longer than
perhaps other places.
>>GEORGE: How far
back do you go?
>>LACROIX: Well, if we were to
look at things like the Brosius
King List that
came out of Babylon
and then compare it with the
Uruk List of Kings and Sages
and the Sumerian King List,
if we take those three
and we try to combine them
with the ancient pyramid king
list that came out
of the Giza Plateau,
we get dates that bring us
well over 50,000 years old.
Some of them really
point us to something
more like 200,000 years
old, which is totally
beyond our comprehension today.
>>GEORGE: That is amazing.
>>LACROIX: But it
really shows us
that, if we were to look
at our civilization that
has risen largely just
within 1,000 years,
if you really look at it,
over the course of all
the technological
advancements and things
that have happened since the
Middle Ages and everything,
really, if we look at something
that's over 100,000 years old,
it almost is beyond our
capability to understand.
>>GEORGE: And this
history has been lost.
How do we find it?
How do you find it with
"Ancient Civilizations?"
>>LACROIX: The
first thing we have
to do is we have to shed this
preconditioned notion we get
from doctrines we're
taught in school, this idea
that civilization is only
come from a 6,000 year window
and that everything before
was nomadic hunter gatherers
and was primitive.
We need to totally take that
and throw it out and start over
again and actually look at what
the evidence around the world
is telling us.
And what that evidence
from, whether or not
it's looking at the
ancient Maya or down
into the pre-Inca,
the Egyptians,
the Sumerians, the
ancient Japanese,
or throughout
Southeast Asia, what
we're seeing from all these
civilizations is they say,
look, there was a
civilization that
came long before us that taught
us everything we know now.
And that civilization
disappeared.
And that goes so much
further back than we're told.
So if we take
megalithic evidence
and look at radiocarbon
dating that we're doing
and we look at the
totality of all of this,
we can put together a
timeline and understanding
to be able to recreate a show
like "Ancient Civilizations"
that actually tells this
story from the evidence
rather than just from these
doctrines we've been taught.
>>GEORGE: Do you touch
on ancient aliens, ETs?
>>LACROIX: It's
obviously an area--
if something like that-- if
we have evidence of influences
that come from the
stars, of course,
we're going to discuss it.
But the focus here
is, does the evidence
support that direction?
And if it doesn't,
then we don't go there.
We have to be
open-minded to say what
is the strongest evidence
telling us from what this says?
So it's an open-minded show,
but it's largely evidence-driven
as much as it possibly can be.
>>GEORGE: You had
mentioned the Great Flood.
We seem to have stories
abound about that.
I happen to think maybe an
asteroid hit the planet right
in the ocean and created that
tsunami you just mentioned.
What do you think?
>>LACROIX: Well, that's a
really interesting thing,
because if we were to look at
everyone from Robert Schoch,
who's a geologist, all the way
to Graham Hancock and Randall
Carlson--
>>GEORGE: Great people.
>>LACROIX: Great researchers,
great people, great minds.
If we were to look
at that, there's
really these two camps
that come into play.
Now, I had a great conversation
with Randall Carlson
a little while ago where
we were discussing this.
And he came out and he's, of
course, a trained geologist.
And he came out
and he was saying,
look, maybe both are right.
Maybe what we're looking at is
this Younger Dryas catastrophe
period, maybe both
things happened.
And by both I mean we had
impacts from celestial impacts,
large comets.
But maybe we also had things
like coronal mass ejections.
These mini supernovas
from the sun.
Maybe it all comes
into play because
of these disruptions to
our outer solar system
and our star, the sun.
So really, I think we need to
look at it as maybe the Younger
Dryas was a combination of all
of these different disastrous
events.
>>GEORGE: Let's take a
glimpse of the new season
of "Ancient Civilizations"
about the Great Flood.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- In the beginning, after
a great devastation,
according to the
Sumerian texts, the gods
came and manifested
humans again.
And this is a theme that
we see repeated many times
in many cultures
all over the world
that there was a
creation of humans.
There was a massive flood,
and the Earth was repopulated.
That's reflected in the
Babylonian texts and the Hebrew
texts and the Egyptian texts.
They all mention
something similar.
- When you do a deep
survey into the myths
from around the
world, you actually
find that there were
two different flood
narratives that happened.
And so in the very
first flood narrative
it talks about a dark
world or a beginning
and the end of an age.
And then there's this cataclysm,
and this flood occurs.
And the individual
escapes the flood
with the seven sages,
the seven Abigails.
And then after that, it is the
beginning of this golden age
and this new period of time.
With the Noah flood, there's
civilization that is occurring.
And the flood
happens because they
are trying to wipe
out the wickedness
from on the planet, like you
find in the biblical narrative.
And Noah survives the
flood, and there's
no mention of these seven
sages or seven Abigails.
- So in South America
we have the tradition
of Viracocha, who is a builder
god that suddenly shows up
mysteriously after a global
flood wiped everything out.
And he appears in
specific locations
with a group of
seven specialists.
They're experts in their fields
because wherever civilization
appears on the face of
the Earth after the flood
and is always one
charismatic leader who
leads seven crafts people,
experts in their field.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>GEORGE: Fascinating,
fascinating indeed.
And who told Noah
to build that ark?
>>LACROIX: That story is
one of my favorites of all
because, really,
what the first thing
we need to do is
go back and realize
that the Noah is
actually a term that
was given as a biblical term.
His real name in the
ancient Sumerian text
and into, for instance, the
Atra-Hasis, we find out--
and in the Epic of
Gilgamesh-- we find out he
had a couple of names in history
that he actually was called by.
His name was Ut-napishtim,
or his name was Ziusudra.
>>GEORGE: I like Noah better.
>>LACROIX: Well, but his
story is really quite amazing
because he was actually the very
last of these prediluvian kings
of one of these
original five cities
of Sumer known as Shuruppak.
And his father Ubara-tutu
was the last great king
of that city, and he was going
to take the reins to rule over
that city.
He did briefly until this
great catastrophe occurred.
And he was the one who
recorded, basically,
mankind's entire
story because he
had a very special
bloodline that connected
to some of these ancient kings.
And he was told, through a
reed bed from his god Enki,
basically, how to survive
this catastrophe so
that his offspring
and his bloodlines
could literally bring
and carry on humanity.
>>GEORGE: I'm looking
forward to the new season.
>>LACROIX: Me too.
I think that it's really
going to help a lot of people
piece together some of these
aspects of understanding what
this real story is but really
coming from as much evidence
as we possibly can.
>>GEORGE: What is
the Great Anunna?
>>LACROIX: The Great Anunna
was the original term
of these celestial beings that
came here that basically taught
civilization everything because,
when we think of metallurgy
or animal husbandry or
mathematics or astronomy,
every single one of those
things came from one
single point in history.
The Sumerians claim that
all of that knowledge,
which is where we
trace it all back to--
>>GEORGE: Absolutely.
>>LACROIX: --was
handed down to them
through what was called kingship
in the knowledge of the gods.
And their gods, these
celestial gods, not
the forces of nature,
physical or nonphysical beings
that literally communicated
and taught them,
they were called the Anunna.
It meant from those who are
from heaven came to Earth
or from beyond
basically came here.
And they were called the Great
Anunna and later the Anunnaki
to the Akkadian and
Babylonian cultures.
But that was their sky
gods that they essentially
state all of the
knowledge of civilization
came from, which is why all of a
sudden everything just took off
and we became something very
different than what we were.
>>GEORGE: Something exploded.
>>LACROIX: Something happened.
>>GEORGE: How do
we know that there
were lost civilizations, Matt?
How do we know this
without evidence?
>>LACROIX: Well, if we were to
look at, say, this 6,000 year
model that we're taught in
school, this doctrine, right,
if we were to look
at that for a second
and try to consider what's known
as the Mohs hardness scale,
it means that, if you have a
civilization that's identified,
like we're told, as being
a Bronze Age civilization,
right, using bronze
and copper tools,
it means that, according
to the Mohs hardness scale,
those tools have
a certain hardness
that they have to
them, which means
they can't manipulate something
that's harder than they are.
You simply can't
do anything to it.
And what we find is, if we
look at the telltale signs
of these megalithic
civilizations
around the world, that
means giant stones,
and we look at how most of
them are composed of quartzite
and granite, on the Mohs
hardness scale that's a 7
or an 8, which means it's
too hard to be able to carve,
meaning that it's from
a civilization that
had tools and technology that
was far beyond the capability
these civilizations were taught.
And that's what
proves that they're
part of a lost civilization
because their knowledge
was more and more
lost over time and not
gained like we're taught.
>>GEORGE: I can tell you're so
excited about these subjects.
You really are.
You're like a little kid again.
>>LACROIX: I am.
It's a very exciting
thing to talk about
because the evidence is
all around the world.
And when you know
what to look for
and when you understand the
story from what they tell us,
it invigorates you to a level
of understanding of reality
and understanding the history
of who we are to a completely
different place.
And all of a sudden, your
world changes, and you
see that, look, we come
from something that's
far greater than we were told.
We come from something that was
like a spark of consciousness,
and spark of the
gods, that turned us
into something that was truly
remarkable in the universe.
And we have since
fallen to such a degree,
that we've forgotten
who we were.
And we have total amnesia of
who truly came through before us
and who we were.
>>GEORGE: Egypt and Atlantis,
is there a connection?
>>LACROIX: There is.
There's actually some
phenomenal connections
that people don't know of.
And when you think
about the story of Plato
and how he came up with
the Timaeus et Critias.
A lot of people say
that it was an allegory
for the perfect civilization.
But it wasn't based
on anything real.
But if you actually look
at the evidence from that,
you find out that Plato learned
about the story of Atlantis
from Solon and these
temple priests of Egypt.
See?
This is where the two connect
because Solon traveled
to Egypt, and he met
these temple priests
of a temple that
used to exist called
Sais, the Temple of Sais.
And they state--
>>GEORGE: What do you
mean used to exist?
>>LACROIX: It was destroyed
about 1,000 years later,
and all the records that
were there were lost.
>>GEORGE: Who destroyed it?
>>LACROIX: We
don't actually know
because those records of
what happened to that temple
disappeared to history.
But what the temple
priests have say state
is that they were
the ones who had
recorded the history and
information of Atlantis before.
And they tell Solon that
you remember one disaster,
but there have been many
that have come before you.
And they go into
detail about Atlantis,
and they state that
they're the ones that
had the knowledge
contained in the temple
and within the priests.
And when it died
with them, it only
survived with Plato,
Solon, and Diodorus.
>>GEORGE: Matt, why
is it so important
for us to understand the past?
>>LACROIX: Understanding the
past, there's a famous quote.
"You can't understand
where you're
going unless you know
where you've come from."
And so we have to look back to
understand how far we reached,
the level we were to
have achieved consciously
and energetically and
realize that we've fallen.
And if we can't
understand where we were,
then we're not going to know
how to get back to that again.
And that place that
we were once at
tells this incredible
story of civilizations
that rose up to this
level of understanding
the universe, the Earth,
harmonics and energy
and consciousness to a way
where they literally became gods
like those that created them.
And we have fallen so
far that we're simply
trying to put these
pieces together,
and that's why that
story matters so much.
>>GEORGE: Did we ever
find ancient maps?
>>LACROIX: We have.
Actually, one of
my favorite maps
that we uncovered when
we were researching
season 5 of "Ancient
Civilizations"
is that, in 1907, there
was a map found in Tibet.
And of course, of all
places like Tibet,
it makes sense though.
If there were
global catastrophes,
you'd want to protect
some of that knowledge
in one of the highest
areas of the world, right?
And so in the story that
it's really fascinating
that's going to go into
season 5 is that we're
looking at these ancient
Tibetan civilizations, right,
that go far back,
where they describe
how the story is that there was
a monk in Tibet who was just
traveling through the mountains
one day in the early 1900s.
And he found a cave far
up on this mountainside
that had been
essentially lost to time.
He went in this cave,
and what he found
was a library with records
all over the world, Chinese,
Sanskrit--
>>GEORGE: From how far back?
>>LACROIX: Thousands
and thousands of years.
>>GEORGE: Oh, my gosh, relics.
>>LACROIX: And so what
happened was he went back,
and he ended up telling the
story to an ancient researcher
and a writer who was
traveling through the region.
And that researcher and
writer went into these caves,
and he told him the story.
And because he realized that the
monk didn't know how to read,
understand this because
he wasn't a scholar.
So this scholar
went to this cave,
and what he found
and uncovered was
there was a map
in there, George,
a map unlike any map that's
ever existed in history.
>>GEORGE: What did it show?
>>LACROIX: This map
showed detailed records
from around the world,
cartographic records
of ancient Atlantis
but, specifically,
the region it existed in and
another civilization that
was lost called Lemuria or Mu.
>>GEORGE: Sure.
>>LACROIX: But what
was so important
about it was that it depicts
how it was being destroyed
at certain time periods
and that there was actually
flooding that was
still occurring
in places like the Amazon
basin and the Mississippi
River, which goes
exactly with records
from Younger Dryas of what
occurred during that time
period.
>>GEORGE: Where was Atlantis
sketched on this map?
>>LACROIX: Atlantis was shown
to be just West of Spain
and going down into this
region of the Atlantic
right down into the Mayan
region and off of the Bahamas.
>>GEORGE: Very close
to what Plato said.
>>LACROIX: Exactly, and it shows
the Lemuria Mu civilization
as encompassing places
like Easter Island
and over up to Hawaii
and down into places
like Indonesia, which really
aligns exactly with what
the evidence is telling us.
>>GEORGE: Let's look at more
from "Ancient Civilizations."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Comparing the
prediluvian construction
from all over the planet not
only challenges the mainstream
theory of the origins
of civilization
but solidifies the evidence of
an interconnection of knowledge
between cultures long
before the Great Deluge.
Who were these beings with
this advanced building
knowledge, that could
move these massive stones?
The question is no longer if
these sacred megalithic sites
around the planet were built
before the Great Flood.
The greater mystery is
how long before the flood
were they built?
- In a number of myths,
one of the things
we find is that there's no
cultural memory in humanity
of how they made these
megalithic structures.
There is no recollection of
the engineering technology
that's required to
create these structures
and lift stones a
certain way because it
wasn't their technology.
It was the god's technology.
And so that's why we
can't do it again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- Etched in the human psyche
are stories of struggle and pain
to conquer and rule different
sections of this planet.
Separation,
division, and control
became the dominant
benchmark to gauge
the success of a civilization
making it easy to forget how
everything is interconnected.
Most Western maps
have been arranged
around the Prime Meridian
showing the Americas
on the left.
But as the connections
between ancient civilizations
become more apparent, the map
must shift back to the time
where the unification
of the planet
can be seen and felt as the
one divided into the many.
The ice melted creating new
islands and covering old ones.
As civilization
began rebuilding,
the division on the
planet grew stronger.
Turning back our
celestial clock,
we discover that whatever
label humanity tries
to put on this deluge
period in history,
there are foundational
story points that
connect all to a
very volatile time
on the surface of the planet.
But when the hands of
time go back to the time
before the end of the world, the
clues in archeology and tales
told in hero's epic journeys
around the planet show
that most civilized
structures eventually fall.
But to uncover the fundamental
ancient knowledge that
ties the whole story
together, the hero
must return back
to the foundations
where the story begins.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>GEORGE: Congratulations
on what is
going to be an amazing series.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, I really am
excited because we really put
our heart and soul into this.
And it's really based on
this totality of knowledge
from all of these amazing
researchers, right,
everyone from Graham Hancock
to Robert Bauval to Robert
Schoch to Brien Foerster,
and this entire pyramid
group of all these
individuals that
then take all this knowledge
into this pinnacle.
We take all of
this and ingest it
and try to recreate
really what this story is.
>>GEORGE: Absolutely.
I want to look at
some still pictures
and have you
explain to us, Matt,
what they are because
they're dramatic.
The first is what we call
the Obelisk Aswan Egypt.
Let's take a look at this.
>>LACROIX: Yeah,
this is really--
you asked earlier in
the show about what's
the proof that these lost
civilizations existed.
But this even goes
a step further.
It proves that they
suddenly disappeared,
which means it wasn't like the
slow demise of civilization.
It was something that occurred
very quickly at the height
of their sophistication.
And this is the first
of three examples
that really highlight this.
So this is in Aswan Egypt, and
it's the unfinished obelisk.
And it was going to be the
largest obelisk in the world.
>>GEORGE: How old is this?
>>LACROIX: This obelisk is
well over 12,000 years old.
Now, modern academia
tells us that it was left
unfinished because it cracked.
>>GEORGE: Look at the stonework.
It's magnificent.
>>LACROIX: Exactly,
but more realistically,
it cracked from giant megalithic
events and earthquakes that
seem to destroy
these civilizations
and literally wipe
them out at the height
of their sophistication,
meaning that they
were getting ready to finish
that when they were suddenly
wiped out.
>>GEORGE: That's tremendous.
>>LACROIX: Now, I want to
point one more thing out.
In the bottom part
of the screen,
notice that the lower
part of the obelisk
has these indications of
almost like scoop marks
or some means in which it
wasn't basically sanded down
and flattened.
That's part of the
technology, George,
for how they seem to have
taken these giant stones out
of their hosts,
meaning that some kind
of a technological tool would
basically scoop these out.
And then they would
polish them down after.
>>GEORGE: Exciting.
Let's look at our next
picture, which is out of China
in a quarry.
Tell us about this.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, this is
absolutely incredible.
And for those who think this is
a natural formation, it's not.
This is part of what's known
as a Yangshan Quarry in China.
And the reason we know it's not
natural is right behind this,
behind where the
picture is taken,
there are a giant finished
stela's that had been basically
carved down and smoothed,
basically, cut in such
a precise way that there were
tools that we have no idea what
they were.
>>GEORGE: That looks
like a little man
down there, a
sketch of something.
Do you see that,
right in the front?
>>LACROIX: I do.
These are basically-- this
was the gigantic stela that
was left completely unfinished.
It had just been taken
out of the host rock.
Now, here's the wild thing.
This stone, George,
is 16,000 tons.
Now, the second largest stela
megalith we have in the world,
at Baalbek, Lebanon is 1,200.
>>GEORGE: Which is
our next picture.
Let's look at that one.
Huge.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, so this
is at Baalbek, Lebanon.
And yet again, we find
another situation where
this was a quarry where
this stone was not uncovered
until 1994, meaning
our understanding
of these civilizations
is not that old.
We're still figuring this out
and trying to understand it.
But the point is,
these stones were
of the largest of
their civilization,
meaning the height of
their sophistication,
were in the process of being
taken out of their quarries
when all of the work
mysteriously stopped.
>>GEORGE: Why?
>>LACROIX: And that's the why is
what gets into understanding--
>>GEORGE: Did something happen?
>>LACROIX: Something
disastrous happened, George.
Where, during the Younger
Dryas, and we look at ice core
samples, we see
temperature fluctuations
in the Earth that are
completely unfathomable.
>>GEORGE: You think there
were Earth changes that
caused the stop?
>>LACROIX: We're looking
at Earth changes--
>>GEORGE: Or human changes.
>>LACROIX: --so significant
that it's like something
out of a Hollywood movie.
Where, if you were to
imagine every volcano
in the world going off and
every tectonic plate starting
to move, you would
have basically a time
period over 1,000 years of
catastrophes that are occurring
over and over again
that would basically
be enough to completely wipe
out a sophisticated civilization
around the world.
>>GEORGE: It seems that ancient
civilizations were wiped out
by events that happened
time and time again.
Did you find that in your work?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, it
seems to be, when
we look at geologic
evidence-- and again, this
is one of the
conversations I had
with the phenomenal geologist
and climatologist expert
Randall Carlson, where
we said, hey, look,
there are these specific
two time periods that
keep coming up in geologic
and climatological records
over and over again.
That is around 5,000 years
ago, every 5,000 years
and every 13,000 years.
So it's not one event,
but it's two events.
But of those two,
this 13,000 year event
seems to be the worst.
It seems to be the one that none
of these civilizations, George,
have made it through.
>>GEORGE: And they never
picked back up again, did they?
>>LACROIX: They don't.
In fact, every time one
of these have happened,
and according to the ancient
priests of Sais, the temple
priests and the ancient
Maya and the Aztec,
there have been at least four
to five different civilizations
that have risen up and fallen.
And every single time, we've
lost more and more knowledge
in each one of those falls.
>>GEORGE: Matt, the great
geologist Gregg Braden,
whom we've seen--
talks about ancient
civilizations
and why he thinks
something happened.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- There are common
themes that run
through all of these stories.
One of those themes
is that civilization
is cyclic rather than
linear, that there
have been previous cycles of
civilization that have lasted
for approximately 5,000 years.
Something happens.
Those cycles come to an
end, a new cycle begins.
This is where it gets
really interesting
because, even though
the cycles change,
there appears to be a
continuity of knowledge,
a continuity of wisdom when it
comes to the end of one cycle
and the beginning of the next.
The Mayans divided one
precession of the equinoxes,
so 26,000 year
cycle approximately,
into five 5,125
year-long cycles.
Each of those cycles,
when they begin,
something happens to the
civilization during that time.
And one of the questions
that historians have asked
is, could there be something
that drives these cycles?
Is there a cosmological
phenomenon?
Is there a climactic phenomenon?
Is there a geologic phenomenon?
Maybe it's a convergence
of all of these phenomenon.
Something happens
every 5,125 years.
Well, if we take the year
2012 as the end of one 5,125
year-long cycle and we go back
in time to the 5,000 years
previously, this
would be the time
that we traditionally have
been taught that civilization
began in 5,500 years ago.
Now, new discoveries are
revealing the remnants
of ancient civilizations that
predate that 5,000 years many,
many times.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>GEORGE: Gosh wouldn't you
have loved social networking
in those days?
We'd find out instantly
what was going on.
>>LACROIX: Right?
Well, that's one of the things
that we have available to us
that I don't think anyone
else before us did.
And so we may have
certain technologies
and certain capabilities that no
civilization before us has had.
And even though
on the surface it
may seem we're very disconnected
and almost broken in some ways,
but that technology
and those means
that we have available
to us, I believe
are being utilized for
us to survive this cycle
for the first time in history.
>>GEORGE: Let's go
to Luxor in Egypt
and take a look at
our final picture.
>>LACROIX: So here we
are in Luxor, Egypt.
We have some of, if
not, the largest stone
statues in the world.
>>GEORGE: Amazing.
They look like pharaohs.
>>LACROIX: They're called
the Colossi of Memnon.
Now, they guard this entrance
into places like the Ramesseum
and Karnak temple.
But what's so phenomenally
interesting about these first,
to give a couple of stats,
these are 700 tons each.
And they're 60 feet tall.
>>GEORGE: One piece,
or is it stacked--
>>LACROIX: One single
piece that has been broken
by earthquakes over time.
>>GEORGE: Amazing.
>>LACROIX: But what's
so fascinating,
George, is that on
the Colossi of Memnon,
there is what's known as
vitrification or scarring
on one specific
part of each statue.
On the Northeast side
of each one of these
we find evidence of
catastrophes that
occurred that
literally were what
destroyed the civilization
that created them.
But those catastrophes
seem to have
come from a specific direction.
And what's
interesting about that
is that vitrification,
which means melting of rock,
can only occur if
temperatures in the surface
exceed 2,000 degrees.
>>GEORGE: That's
an asteroid strike.
>>LACROIX: It's some
kind of a massive--
>>GEORGE: Well,
where's the crater?
>>LACROIX: --heat,
either asteroid strike
or a coronal mass
ejection blasting energy
from the sun that basically
comes through the ozone layer
and literally can
invade the surface.
>>GEORGE: Bigger than
a Carrington Event.
Something huge.
>>LACROIX: Something
much greater.
But it may be a combination of
both of those events, George,
that led to this.
But either way,
those civilizations
have evidence of
environments on the surface
that you would have been
vaporized if you were there.
>>GEORGE: Matt,
I'm looking forward
to your next season of
"Ancient Civilizations."
Good luck with that.
>>LACROIX: Thank you so much.
I can't wait for
everyone to see it.
>>GEORGE: It's going
to be easy to find.
If you're a member
of Gaia, you can
watch "Ancient Civilizations"
as I'm going to.
Thanks for watching.
[SUPERNATURAL MUSIC]